In the previous video,
we looked at this example of the results of a math test.
Let's say, we have another test,
let's say physics, where the results look like this,
where this was definitely a difficult test with low mean and little variance in that,
and another test, let's say biology test,
that looks like this.
We can plot histograms for each of these two tests
and that would show us that they both follow Gaussian distributions,
but with different means and different variances,
but they're both Gaussian.
Say, we have this datasets and we want to do Gaussian Mixture Model Clustering on it.
Let's say, we're going to pass this to Scikit-Learn and say,
"Okay, find this two clusters in here using Gaussian Mixture Models."
Let's look at this dataset beforehand, though.
This dataset clearly does not follow one Gaussian distribution.
That's because the dataset is actually a merger of these two datasets.
Each one of them is a Gaussian, but together merged,
they are not one Gaussian,
they're two Gaussians without their labels.
But Scikit-Learn does not know of that,
we just hand it a list of points and say,
"Cluster them into two groups."
And the results would be these two clusters.
Scikit-Learn was able to do that by finding this Gaussian Mixture distribution,
which is not a Gaussian model in itself,
but it's actually a mixture of two.
So, this is one model that contains two Gaussians.
And whichever point seems to have the highest probability to have come from
each Gaussian is classified as belonging to a separate cluster.
And so, these points here were most likely generated by
this Gaussian so they belong to this cluster,
and these points were most likely generated
by this Gaussian and so they belong to this cluster.
This example in one-dimension is probably
the simplest form of a Gaussian Mixture Model Clustering.
In the next video, we'll look at what
a Gaussian distribution looks like in two dimensions.